[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: We're gonna do
a save as and we're gonna go to
9.server.js
>> Kyle Simpson: And
we're gonna go to 9.server.js, and
we're going to go to 9.html,
make sure to update your headers.
Okay.
Now what I want you to do is you're
going to leave the hello stuff alone.
Don't touch that plumbing, but
I want you to add some additional stuff,
and we're gonna see whether or not I
can just give you some instructions and
see how well you can
try to figure this out.
What I want you to do is I
want you to add input box,
text box to your page that somebody
could type some text into, and
I want you to add a button that
you can click to submit that text.
And I want you to add a div or
some paragraph element that can
receive messages from the web sockets,
okay?
So, that's your task for your HTML.
And then once you have that added,
I want you to wire up some
logic that allows you, let me double
check and see if this is when we
should bring in jQuery, I can't remember
which level we brought jQuery into,
not yet, still got to do it yourself,
but it's not that hard.
[COUGH] You're gonna wire up the event,
so that when somebody clicks that button,
that it will submit the text
back to the server.
So it'll send the web socket
event to the server, and
then once you have that running, I'll show
you how to do the server side of it so
that you can broadcast
that message back up.
So, I'll give you guys a couple minutes
to work on the HTML side of it,
but your goal is to be able to send and
receive a WebSocket message that has
things that people have
typed into that input box.
>> Kyle Simpson: We'll give you
maybe seven minutes to try that out.
>> Kyle Simpson: [COUGH]
>> Kyle Simpson: All right,
again there is many different
ways to approach this, but
I'm just gonna [COUGH] take
a simple little approach to it.
So, I'm going to leave my little
paragraph that handles my numbers alone,
my hello messages alone.
I'm going to create an input
box which I will give the id of
typeit, and then I'll have a button,
which I give the ID of send it.
And, then I'll have a div,
which I give the ID of messages.
Down here in my script code,
I'll say document.getElementById,
send it .addEventListener.
It's always painful when we have
to do this without JavaScript
libraries to help us.
The click handler [COUGH] and
then my function.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay,
we want, whenever you click
send it, if, let's pull it,
let's figure out what the value
is in the type it input box, so
equals Document.getElementById
type it.value.
So if we have something
that has been typed there,
we want to do socket.emit,
type it with the value that
message that's been sent.
We also want to.
>> Kyle Simpson: Get the messages div,
and add our message on to it.
So, we'll say innerHTML plus equals.
>> Kyle Simpson: And
then finally, we wanna say
document.getElementById typeit, and
set the value to empty in the input box.
So, that's gonna take care of
sending it up to the server.
>> Kyle Simpson: Now, we wanna listen for
those messages from
other connected clients.
So, we wanna listen for
the messages event, for instance.
>> Kyle Simpson: And
whenever we receive that event,
we wanna do something very similar here.
>> Kyle Simpson: [COUGH] Does
everybody see how I got that?
Did you get something roughly similar?
>> Kyle Simpson: I forgot in my little
input I need to give it a label, so
my value here is send a message for
instance.
Okay, let's change the server,
I'm sorry, what?
>> Student 1: The ID of Davis message,
not messages,
because that's what you're referring to,
right?
>> Kyle Simpson: Good point.
I mean to call it messages.
[BLACK_AUDIO] All right,
now on the server,
this actually going to turn out to be
really kind of stupid, simple to do.
All right, so, we need to listen for
socket.on, what's our event name?
Typeit.
>> Kyle Simpson: Where we're gonna
receive a message from the browser.
Now, we wanna basically send this out
to everybody else that's connected,
not everybody [COUGH]
because the one who wrote it already
has their copy of the message.
So, we want to send it out to everybody
else, and that is called a broadcast.
So, if we say
socket.broadcast.emit message.
Did I call it message, or messages?
Messages, msg.
>> Kyle Simpson: That's it,
that's all it takes to broadcast
a message out to everybody else.
>> Student 2: So,
socket io knows not to send it to the one?
>> Kyle Simpson: If you say
socket.broadcasts like I did there on line
32, it's automatic behavior is that
it will send it to everybody else.
If you want to send
a message to everybody,
including the current one,
you would instead do IO.broadcast.
>> Kyle Simpson: But
when we say socket.broadcast, it knows,
broadcasts to everybody except for
this current connected socket.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay,
let's start up our 9.server.js.
When it come to the browser,
and I'm gonna shrink my window,
cuz now I want to have two
windows open at the same time.
>> Kyle Simpson: Side by side,
and the first one I'm gonna load
/9
>> Kyle Simpson: And
then I'm going to load up
a second connected version of it.
So, you notice that these two
are getting different messages in
terms of their random numbers,
and that's on purpose.
Because each different connected
socket has its own interval running,
they're running at different times, and
they're getting different messages.
But when we want to create
the synchronicity between two clients,
if I say hello and I click send message,
if I haven't created an error, we should
see hello show up in both places.
And then if I'm over here and
I type in world,
everybody gets that message right away.
>> Kyle Simpson: So yeah, we've just
created a very simple stupid IRC client.
[LAUGH] It's a chat client.
Okay.
See how easy that was?
It was only a couple of lines
of code to create a chat client.
Now, there's fantastically more
complexity to real applications,
obviously we're glossing over a lot.
We're not doing any validation
of what you're sending in.
You could be sending it in HTML tags
to do cross site scripting or whatever.
So there's [COUGH] there's more logic to
it in terms of actual production apps, but
the real core underlying thing is that
we've set up real time communications.
Now, when I type in a message and
you see it show up,
you see it practically immediately,
and it would be easy for
you to think well,
that's just because on a same machine.
If I were to deploy this server out into
the real world on a server in a different
state, and
I were to run this, it would still
appear basically instantaneous to you.
And the reason for that is, in general,
web sockets are gonna be anywhere from
50 to 100 milliseconds of latency.
And what we know from user experience
testing is that most users are not able to
distinguish less than 100 milliseconds
as a difference between that and
instantaneous.
Just happens too fast for
us to visually process it and
understand that it's anything
different than instantaneous.
So, if the update takes 50
milliseconds to update,
most users aren't even gonna know that
it was any different than immediate,
which is pretty cool because that's way
faster and way more near the real time
than we ever could have gotten
with AJAX in the same scenario.